Pathogenic Islands detection in a new strain of Yersinia



Overview


The goal of this project is to better understand the potential pathogenicity and gene conservation of novel strains of Yersinia bacteria. The main objective is to determine whether the recently identified Yersinia strains (NewYersinia1 and NewYersinia2) contain particular genes linked to pathogenicity. For use in related studies involving other species in the future, a generalised pipeline has been created.

Insights into gene evolution and structure inform strategies for combating Yersinia-related infections. In addition, users seeking assistance with this project can find support through the research team, academic forums, or relevant online communities. Documentation, tutorials, and forums related to bioinformatics, BLAST can offer valuable assistance for specific inquiries and challenges.

This project advances understanding of the pathogenicity and gene conservation of Yersinia bacteria, which aids in the development of targeted diagnostics and therapeutics.

 Project Elements

1. Pipeline Development: - To examine gene conservation and pathogenicity among various species, a versatile pipeline has been developed.

2. Gene Analysis:** - The GenBank database was used to obtain the genes.
   - To determine which genes were present in NewYersinia1 and NewYersinia2, BLAST analysis was used.
   - Gene conservation, evolution, and possible roles can be understood by the creation of phylogenetic trees based on BLAST data.
3. Python Programme:** - Based on sequence IDs, a Python programme is offered for the easy retrieval of DNA or protein sequences in FASTA format.


4. Analysis of the Conserved Domain Database (CDD):** - The proteins in NewYersinia1 and NewYersinia2 were examined using the CDD.


5. Results and Analysis: - The results show that NewYersinia1 may be pathogenic and has a high degree of gene conservation.
   - NewYersinia2 exhibits reduced gene conservation, and the confirmation of one gene (o-spanin) was not possible.


6. Additional Analyses: - To gain a thorough understanding of gene functions, protein modelling, physio-chemical analysis, and other techniques were used.


Requirements

- To run the provided Python programme, make sure you have Python installed.

Setup

1. Make a repository clone:


   To install the necessary Python packages, type '''bash git clone https://github.com/rahul8776/Pathogenic-Islands-detection-in-a-new-strain-of-Yersinia


1.Install required Python packages:

  pip install -r requirements.txt 


Usage:

The project investigates novel Yersinia strains for pathogenicity and gene conservation using a versatile pipeline. BLAST and tools reveal gene presence, evolution, and potential functions.


1. Launch the sequence retrieval Python programme:
python find_seq.py

2. Examine the outcomes of BLAST analysis



Licence:

The MIT Licence governs the use of this project.


Recognitions
We especially appreciate the team members' cooperative efforts and insightful observations that enriched the project analysis.



   

